# fairlo-cloud-assignment

This is a coding assignment for fairlo
The application is build using node Express framework and uses Redis as a database to store the data.

It exposes the following endpoints:

1. POST /shorten
    - Request Body: { "url":"https://example.com"}
    - Response: { "shortenedUrl": "FtcGxlLmNvbQ.ly" }
    - Description: This endpoint takes a long URL and returns a shortened version of it.
    - The shortened URL is generated by encoding the original URL using Base64 encoding and appending a custom domain
      suffix (".ly").
    - The actual shortened url is a slice of the encoded string to make it shorter.
    - The mapping between the original URL and the shortened URL is stored in a Redis database.

2. GET /:shortenedUrl
    - Description: This endpoint takes a shortened URL as a path parameter and redirects the user to the original long
      URL.
    - It looks up the shortened URL in the Redis database to find the corresponding original URL.
    - If the shortened URL is found, it performs a redirect to the original URL.

### Testing

To test the application locally, you can run the following commands:

1. docker-compose up --build
   2. Use Postman or curl to test the endpoints:
       - To shorten a URL:
```JSON
         {
            "url":"https://example.com"
         }
```
It should return a response like:
```JSON
{
    "shortenedUrl": "FtcGxlLmNvbQ.ly"
}
```
         - To access the shortened URL, use the response from the previous request.
            - Open a browser or use curl to access: http://localhost:3000/FtcGxlLmNvbQ.ly
            - It should redirect you to the original URL: https://example.com
3. To stop the application, run:
    - docker-compose down
